Let's continue our discussion on how
documentation provides transparency
through documents like chain of custody.
During incident response,
evidence must be accounted for
during the entire incident's lifecycle.
Tracking evidence is important if the
evidence is requested as part of any legal
proceedings.
How can security teams
ensure that this is done?
They use a form called chain of custody.
Chain of custody is the process of
documenting evidence possession and
control during an incident lifecycle.
As soon as evidence gets collected,
chain of custody forms are introduced.
The forms should be filled out with
details as the evidence is handled.
Let's examine a very simple example of
how chain of custody is used during
digital forensic analysis.
Previously, you learned that digital
forensics is the practice of collecting
and analyzing data to determine
what has happened after an attack.
During an incident response, Aisha
verified that a compromised hard drive
requires examination
by the forensics team.
First, she ensures that the hard
drive is write protected, so
the data on the disk can't be edited or
erased.
Then, she calculates and
records a cryptographic hash function
of an image of the hard drive.
Remember that a hash function is
an algorithm that produces a code that
can't be decrypted.
Aisha is then instructed to transfer it to
Colin in the forensics department.
Colin examines it and
sends it off to Nav, another analyst.
Nav receives the compromised hard drive
and sends it to her manager, Arman.
Each time the hard drive is transferred
to another person, they need to log it in
the chain of custody form,
so that movement of
evidence is transparent.
Tampering with the data on the hard drive
can be detected using the original hash
that Aisha documented at
the beginning of the process.
This ensures that there's a paper trail
describing who handled the evidence, and
why, when, and where they handled it.
Just like other documentation types,
there is no standard template of what the
chain of custody form should look like, but
they do contain common elements.
This is what you might examine
on a chain of custody log form.
First, there should be a description of the
evidence, which includes any identifying
information, like the location,
hostname, MAC address, or IP address.
Next is the custody log, which details
the name of the people who transferred and
received the evidence.
It also includes the date and time the
evidence was collected or transferred and
the purpose of the transfer.
You may be wondering: what happens if
evidence gets logged incorrectly?
Or, if there's a missing entry?
This is what's known as a broken chain
of custody, which occurs when there
are inconsistencies in the collection and
logging of evidence in
the chain of custody.
In the court of law, chain
of custody documents
help establish proof of the integrity,
reliability, and accuracy of the evidence.
For evidence related to security incidents,
chain of custody forms are used to help
meet legal standards
so that this evidence can be used in
legal proceedings. If a malicious actor
compromised a system, evidence must be
available to determine their actions
so that appropriate legal
action can be taken.
However, in some cases,
major breaks in the chain of custody can
impact the integrity, reliability, and
accuracy of the evidence.
This affects whether or not the evidence
can be a trusted source of information and
used in the court of law.
Chain of custody forms provide us with
a method of maintaining evidence, so
that malicious actors can be held
responsible for their actions.